Usability Testing
What is Usability Testing?

Usability testing is nothing but the User-friendliness check.
In Usability testing,  the application flow is tested so that a new user can understand the application easily.
Basically, system navigation is checked in Usability testing.
What is the purpose or Goal of Usability testing?

A Usability test establishes the ease of use and effectiveness of a product using a standard Usability test practices.

Usability Test Scenarios:

Web page content should be correct without any spelling or grammatical errors
All fonts should be same as per the requirements.
All the text should be properly aligned.
All the error messages should be correct without any spelling or grammatical errors and the error message should match with the field label.
Tool tip text should be there for every field.
All the fields should be properly aligned.
Enough space should be provided between field labels, columns, rows, and error messages.
All the buttons should be in a standard format and size.
Home link should be there on every single page.
Disabled fields should be grayed out.
Check for broken links and images.
Confirmation message should be displayed for any kind of update and delete operation.
Check the site on different resolutions (640 x 480, 600x800 etc.?)
Check the end user can run the system without frustration.
Check the tab should work properly.
Scroll bar should appear only if required.
If there is an error message on submit, the information filled by the user should be there.
Title should display on each web page
All fields (Textbox, dropdown, radio button etc) and buttons should be accessible by keyboard shortcuts and the user should be able to perform all operations by using keyboard.
Check if the dropdown data is not truncated due to the field size and also check whether the data is hardcoded or managed via administrator.
 

Functional Testing:
What is Functional Testing?
Testing the features and operational behavior of a product to ensure they correspond to its specifications.
Testing that ignores the internal mechanism of a system or component and focuses solely on the outputs generated in response to selected inputs and execution conditions.
What is the purpose or Goal of Functional testing?

The goal of Functional testing is to verify whether your product meets the intended functional specifications mentioned in your development documentation.
Functional Test Scenarios:

Test all the mandatory fields should be validated.
Test the asterisk sign should display for all the mandatory fields.
Test the system should not display the error message for optional fields.
Test that leap years are validated correctly & do not cause errors/miscalculations.
Test the numeric fields should not accept the alphabets and proper error message should display.
Test for negative numbers if allowed for numeric fields.
Test division by zero should be handled properly for calculations.
Test the max length of every field to ensure the data is not truncated.
Test the pop up message ("This field is limited to 500 characters") should display if the data reaches  the maximum size of the field.
Test that a confirmation message should display for update and delete operations.
Test the amount values should display in currency format.
Test all input fields for special characters.
Test the timeout functionality.
Test the Sorting functionality.
Test the functionality of the buttons available
Test the Privacy Policy & FAQ is clearly defined and should be available for users.
Test if any functionality fails the user gets redirected to the custom error page.
Test all the uploaded documents are opened properly.
Test the user should be able to download the uploaded files.
Test the email functionality of the system.
Test the java script is properly working in different browsers (IE, Firefox, Chrome, safari and Opera).
Test to see what happens if a user deletes cookies while in the site.
Test to see what happens if a user deletes cookies after visiting a site.
Test all the data inside combo/list box is arranged in chronological order.
 

Compatibility Testing:
What is Compatibility testing?

Compability testing is used to determine if your software is compatible with other elements of a system with which it should operate, e.g. Browsers, Operating Systems, or hardware.
What is the purpose or Goal of Compatibility testing?

The purpose of Comp ability testing is to evaluate how well software performs in a particular browser, Operating Systems, hardware or software.
Compability Test Scenarios:


Test the website in different browsers (IE, Firefox, Chrome, Safari and Opera) and ensure the website is displaying properly.
Test the HTML version being used is compatible with appropriate browser versions.
Test the images display correctly in different browsers.
Test the fonts are usable in different browsers.
Test the java script code is usable in different browsers.
Test the Animated GIF's across different browsers.
